# Loan-Prediction-Dataset

From the challange hosted at: https://datahack.analyticsvidhya.com/contest/practice-problem-loan-prediction-iii/

## Problem Statement:

Dream Housing Finance company deals in all home loans. They have presence across all urban, semi urban and rural areas. Customer first apply for home loan after that company validates the customer eligibility for loan.

The company wants to automate the loan eligibility process (real time) based on customer detail provided while filling online application form. These details are Gender, Marital Status, Education, Number of Dependents, Income, Loan Amount, Credit History and others. To automate this process, they have given a problem to identify the customers segments, those are eligible for loan amount so that they can specifically target these customers. Here they have provided a partial data set.

## Files

1. trainmodel.py file contains the program where the data is preprocessed and the models are changed.
2. KioskLoanAprovalCheck.py file contains a program which allows user to enter details of the loan and it predicts if the loan would be approved or not using the trained models in trainmodel.py
3. train.csv file contains the data used to train the models.
4. predict.csv file contains data for which prediction is to be done. (Does not contain the 'Loan_Status' attribute)
5. output.csv file contains the data from predict.csv and the predicted value 'Loan_Status' attribute. (Generated by trainmodel.py)
6. finalized_model1.sav file contains the trained Logistic Regression model.
7. finalized_model2.sav file contains the trained Decision tree model.

## The Data

Variable | Description
----------|--------------
Loan_ID | Unique Loan ID
Gender | Male/ Female
Married | Applicant married (Y/N)
Dependents | Number of dependents
Education | Applicant Education (Graduate/ Under Graduate)
Self_Employed | Self employed (Y/N)
ApplicantIncome | Applicant income
CoapplicantIncome | Coapplicant income
LoanAmount | Loan amount in thousands
Loan_Amount_Term | Term of loan in months
Credit_History | credit history meets guidelines
Property_Area | Urban/ Semi Urban/ Rural
Loan_Status | Loan approved (Y/N)

I used Logistic Regression and Decision tree classifers from skikit-learn to train 2 models. The output is the 'AND'of the output of both models. The avg accuracy of the combined models is 84.08% (usually btw 83.91 to 84.26)
 
Note: The rows with null values for 'LoanAmount' and 'Loan_Amount_term' are discarded.


